This file contains notes on the contents of the different types of file 
used by other simulation packages. This information is provided as a
starting point for discussion of choices of what file formats should
be usable with Simpatico programs, and how those choices effect work
flows that may involve other visualization or simulation programs.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gromacs:

Reference: http://www.gromacs.org/Documentation/File_Formats

Gromacs uses several different types of file, with multiple formats for each.
It has:

* Topology files contain force field parameters and molecular structure, including all groups.

* Trajectory files contain atomic positions, velocities and/or forces

* Binary run input file (*.tpr): Contains initial position, velocities topology and all parameters. It is generated by a preprocessor (grompp) and then executed by mdrun to perform the simulation.

Topology files
--------------
A system topology (*.top) file includes a force field file and contains a description of molecular structure for different species by specifying atoms, and groups (bonds, pairs, angles, dihedrals), as well as the number of molecules of each species.  It's not clear to me what [pairs] are for in the topology files. Potential energy parameters are listed separately for each bond, angle, etc., rather than using the notion of group types.  

File types:

    *.top - system topology
    *.itp - include topology (include file for one or more species)
    *.rtp - residue topology, designed specifically for proteins

Trajectory files
----------------
  
   Current output formats:

   *.xtc reduced precision portable binary, positions, time and box information
   *.trr Full precision portable binary positions and (optionally) velocities

   Other / older trajectory formats:

   *.trj full precision coordinate velocity and force 
   *.pdb protein data bank
   *.g96 fixed format ascii, floats in %15.9f format
   *.gro

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lammps:

   Lammps file types:

   - An input script, which is similar to a Simpatico command script
   - A data file, which is similiar to a Simpatico configuration
   - A dump file, which is a trajectory file format
 
   Data file: 
   ----------

   File format reference: http://lammps.sandia.gov/doc/read_data.html

   The data file consists of a header and number of sections. The header
   contains, among other things
   
      number of atoms, bonds, angles, dihedrals, and impropers
      number of types of atom, bond
      box dimensions

   The sections can include:

     Atoms, velocities, mass = atom-property sections
     bonds, angles, dihedrals, impropers = molecular topology sections
     pair coeffs, PairIJ Coeffs, Bond Coeffs, Angle = force field sections

     The file format for atom data depends in part on which atom style is
     being used. 

     The masses section contains a mass for each atom type. It cannot be
     used for atom styles that define a mass for individual atoms.

     There does not appear to be a "charge" type: In atoms styles that
     require a charge, the charge appears to be assigned per atom in the
     atoms section.

   Dump (aka trajectory) files:

     Lammps can dump data in any of several formats:

        Lammps formats: atom, custom and local
        Standard formats: dcd, xtc, xyz, molfile and cfg

        DCD is a nonportable binary format used by CHARMM, NAMD and XPlor. 
        The number of atoms per snapshot is fixed.

        Atoms sorting is off by default for atom, custom, and local and cfg
        Atom sorting is on by default (and may be required) for dcd, xtc, xyz 
        and molfile 
 
        The default atom text file format contains box information and 
        atoms with the format: id type xs ys zs with scaled coordinates.

        VMD can read atom, custom, dcd xtc and zyz files.
 
        The lammps styles can write either one file per snapshot, if 
        the '*' character appears in the file name, or one big file, 
        if no such character apppears. This is not available for dcd 
        and xtc files.

        The lammps dump format has no notion of a "header" section -
        each frame is independent. This format normally contains atom
        type id for each atom in each frame. 

   ----------

